Git_Tutorial.md, before:

# Git and GitHub Course (11-12/Sep 2023)

Git repository: Single collection of documents where you want to track documents. One project and all the commits you made, creating the different versions. Offline, but online when linking to GitHub. 

GitHub: Online collection of all the different projects Gits, repositories for which you want version control. 

## Initializing a Git

`$ git init`

Creates git folder inside current working directory. Everything below the folder of .git repository will be looked at by the git. (If you do, both you and Git are confused)

`$ git commit -m "meaningful message"`

Committing an update, including a message on why this commit is necessary/useful. (Don't include the filename, already tracked)

- Make clear what changed

- How did you change it

- **What** changed

- Why changed

- Limitations (Is it functioning)

- Effects due to the change

### Conceptualizing progress areas

1. Developing area: folder where I develop my project. Local in your computer

2. Staging Area: Intermediate space to transfer from the developing area to local repository

3. Local repository: the repository (hidden .git folder) where you keep your snapshots, also stored locally. 

#### Developing area

In the computer itself, the folder where the git was created.

#### Staging area

Computer itself. Personal space before committing and starting the gitroutine. Creating a snapshot.

Do by `$ git add filename`

#### Local repository = .git

Contains timeline/tracking of changes

See folder using ls -la

Do by` $ git commit`

Commit message:

Tutorial and commands on how and why to use the staging are efficiently, linking files

Git_Tutorial.md, after:

# Git and GitHub Course (11-12/Sep 2023)

Git repository: Single collection of documents where you want to track documents. One project and all the commits you made, creating the different versions. Offline, but online when linking to GitHub. 

GitHub: Online collection of all the different projects Gits, repositories for which you want version control. 

## Initializing a Git

`$ git init`

Creates git folder inside current working directory. Everything below the folder of .git repository will be looked at by the git. (If you do, both you and Git are confused)

`$ git commit -m "meaningful message"`

Committing an update, including a message on why this commit is necessary/useful. (Don't include the filename, already tracked)

- Make clear what changed

- How did you change it

- **What** changed

- Why changed

- Limitations (Is it functioning)

- Effects due to the change

### Conceptualizing progress areas

1. Developing area: folder where I develop my project. Local in your computer

2. Staging Area: Intermediate space to transfer from the developing area to local repository

3. Local repository: the repository (hidden .git folder) where you keep your snapshots, also stored locally. 

To check in what conceptual areas my files are, check by `git status`

#### Developing area

In the computer itself, the folder where the git was created.

#### Staging area

Computer itself. Personal space before committing and starting the gitroutine. Creating a snapshot.

Do by `$ git add filename` (Each file separately)

**Important to stage before saving**: it gives the possibility to give the added files (multiple), the same message so that we can know files are related and helps organize your ideas, especially for parallel changes. Gives more organized message and especially in case of collaborations. 

    If combining to much: insufficient information or confusing

    If not combining enough: repetitive history

    staging related files: creates logical history

#### Local repository = .git

Contains timeline/tracking of changes

See folder using ls -la

Do by` $ git commit`

message for commands: Commands updated with staging and committing multiple files together

message for tutorial: Tutorial with description of combining staged files for committing them together

message if combined: Updated tutorial and commands on how to stage and commit multiple files together and why
